#summary How to install Karmind-obd-application.
#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured

= Introduction =

The setup process is quite simple, since it is automatic and only involves executing the installator file karmind_installer.exe.

_*Disclaimer* This is free software. If source code is not modified, there is no way at all of leading to harm a vehicle. Anyway, there is absolutely no warranty for any action performed by the user of the provided software._

= Details =

Prerequisites: None, except having about 20 MB of free space on your hard disk. OS supported: Windows, Unix.

*_SVN checkout_*
  * Perform a checkout from the SVN in Downloads tab, in order to install the app. 

*_Installation_*
  * Execute karmind_installer.exe. 
  * Accept the terms of the license agreement.
  * Select a destination folder, or leave the default path to install.
  * That´s all. The app is ready to be used and the Karmind app menu was added to your start menu.

[http://code.google.com/p/karmind-obd-application/wiki/Manual Go back to Manual].

*_Uninstall._*
  * Just in the unlikely case you want to do so. Click on uninstall app on the Karmind app start menu, and confirm the installation path.


Be aware of the fact that this app was made with extremely limited resources, and therefore could only be checked against a few brand cars. Thus, it is quite likely to fail while testing against some kind of vehicles. 

Any doubt, improvement or bug to report, let us know, please, hereby or at www.karmind.com. We will be pleased of hearing from you.

Good day!